In the GOC case file [[KTE-2013-Kapala-Mendes]], the GOC knows about at least six cells of the organization: three in North America, two in Eastern Europe and one in North Africa, although there might be even more related groups which are unaccounted. Most members of the cult are from the lower classes of society, with the group having several wealthy backers as well being linked to other radical anomalous groups. The main cell, located in Alabama, USA, presents itself as a standard right-wing Millennialist fire-and-brimstone Christian church. The GOC describes them as "psychopathic demon-worshipers", who have knowledge and access to at least one or more anomalous artifact/entity. The cult also became enemies with the [Serpent's Hand](https://villains.fandom.com/wiki/Serpent%27s_Hand "Serpent's Hand"), since the Children had raided the [Wanderer's Library](https://scp-db.fandom.com/wiki/Wanderer%27s_Library "w:c:scp-db:Wanderer's Library") despite having matching ideologies about breaking the Veil of normalcy.

The current number of this group is speculated to be around 8,000 actual cultists, and at least 60,000 "Second Amendment Activist" Christians, who have a paranoid mistrust of secular governments, and who are ready to defend themselves (as well as the actual cultists) through violent means. The group has gathered massive amounts of wealth, weaponry, and anomalous objects over the years, to the point in which the GOC cannot destroy them in secret. According to the SCP Foundation's Department of Egregorian Studies, most members encountered should be killed on sight as it was impossible to reason with them.

Because of their doctrines the Children are almost always seen as a fascistic force, believing in the superiority of themselves and the resolution of their conflicts with violence. However, the Children are not always seen as fascists, since several of their groups have faced against some fascist groups such as Kahanism and Salafi Jihadism. Numerous groups have even allied themselves with anti-fascist groups as part of achieving their aims, though not out of genuine solidarity or sharing of their core beliefs. This proves that the Children in fact are neither far-left or far-right and structure their groups through hierarchy out of belief of its effectiveness.