As part of their plan to bring their god to their reality, they kidnapped seven young girls (or six depending on canon) and impregnated them via some occult ritual. When the cult was raided by the police, one of the girls gave birth to [something](https://alt-battles.fandom.com/wiki/SCP-166 "w:c:alt-battles:SCP-166") that prompted both the [SCP Foundation](https://villains.fandom.com/wiki/SCP_Foundation "SCP Foundation") and the [Global Occult Coalition](https://villains.fandom.com/wiki/Global_Occult_Coalition "Global Occult Coalition") to step in. The six other girls were detained by the Foundation, but five more births, and with that five more disasters, occurred. Currently only the last girl, [SCP-231-7](https://alt-battles.fandom.com/wiki/SCP-231-7 "w:c:alt-battles:SCP-231-7"), remained, and it was believed if she gave birth, a XK-class "End Of The World Scenario" might occur.

During the raid, while the Foundation got hold of the girls, the GOC got from the Children six of seven ancient spears in which the demonic servants of the Scarlet King were trapped, and because of their ability to summon other servants into Earth and inflict grave damage to people both physically and mentally, the GOC shared the custody of the spears with the Foundation, designating them [KTE-2013-Kapala-Mendes](https://scp-db.fandom.com/wiki/KTE-2013-Kapala-Mendes "w:c:scp-db:KTE-2013-Kapala-Mendes").

On March 1st of 2009, a splinter of the Children attempted to summon the Scarlet King through the ritual smearing of blood and then the destruction of rubble recovered from the Cochran Gardens housing project complex in St. Louis, Missouri, after they manipulated state officials in its demolition over the course of several years. Fortunately, this attempt was thwarted during a Foundation raid.

The Children of the Scarlet King was thought dissolved in 2018 after a joint operation carried by the Foundation and the GOC, during which both the Seventh Bride and the group's leader Dipesh Spivak were taken into custody. However, the cult secretly lived on, with preacher Elder Rockwell unknowingly spreading the Scarlet King worship throughout America, while being aided by Orvo under the guise of "Mr. Green".

Later the Church of the Scarlet King joined General Bowe's Foundation Elimination Coalition, a group dedicated to bring down the SCP Foundation for good and break the veil of secrecy, and successfully took over Site-19 along with other sites. However, the Foundation was able to defeat the Coalition which disbanded after the Foundation sites were retrieved.