The Children and its various iterations follow a set of doctrines. These doctrines are not universal, as some groups can lack them, but from what has been seen almost all groups had at least included one of these thematic elements:

- _Hierarchy and Authoritarianism_: The Children highly value kingship as an explicit reflection of their place in the universe. The right of the King's power is derived from his strength and if he can conquer the universe then he is its rightful ruler and it has to be arranged in a hierarchy of strength, meaning that the strong are to rule over the weak.
- _Violence and Transgression_: Most iterations of the Children believe that power is derived from malice. The violent mistreatment of the lower people grants them more power and right to govern over them. This caused the Children to engage in violent acts such as forced auto-castration of men, administrations of castor oil to communists and anarchists, creation of fake pornography of political opponents, force-feeding religious minorities forbidden foods and insemination of adolescent girls with the King's "Scarlet Spawn". The Children recognize the repulsive nature of these actions and they themselves are disgusted by them and only commit them to establish power. Several captured members of the Children even implored their Foundation captors to torture them since they at the time had power over them.
- _Sex and Emasculation_: Almost all iterations of the Children see the Scarlet King as of male gender, even in cases where the worshippers are of non-human nature and don't have a male gender equivalent in their race. This led to the Children partaking in emasculation as they believe in complementarianism, that each gender has its own role, and only one gender is the strongest and fit to rule over the other.