The [[Scarlet King]] has been depicted in various and often contradicting forms since numerous groups had their own interpretations of the King, including one that described him as a "red whale". The Scarlet King is almost always seen accompanied by his [[Seven Scarlet Brides]]. Just like him, the Brides have taken various forms which ranged from seven Daeva matriarchs, to the Scarlet King's own daughters, and to a pod of seven female whales. However, the Brides are less than actual entities and more of a phenomenon as the Scarlet King is capable of impregnating organisms in groups of seven through numerous means which include: direct breeding by the Children, artificial injection of the Scarlet Spawn's body fluids into their cervix or uterus, symbolic impregnation through ritual magic, and dreams of being impregnated experienced simultaneously by the females.

The Brides would then give birth to creatures labeled as the [[Scarlet Spawn]] which portray the King as a fertility idol and even appear in other mythologies such as that of the Xia Dynasty. These Spawn vary greatly in appearance, behavior and function. The Spawn include: the [[Scarlet Children]] which are identical to normal humans from both biology and personality and is impossible to tell them apart; the [[Holy Beasts]], known to the public as the Humboldt squids, are cephalopodic monsters engineered by the [[Daevites]] for war; and the [[Scarlet Covenant]], a group of humanoid monsters born from the union of the King and several Daeva matriarchs, which are capable of wearing the peeled skin of humans and perfectly impersonate them.

[[The Christian Ministries of America]] interpreted the Scarlet King as an Archangel of God who assisted the Holy Spirit in purging the world of the innocent people they deemed as heretics. Being a discriminatory group, the CMA believed in the Serpent's Seed belief, seeing both [Cain](https://hero.fandom.com/wiki/SCP-073 "w:c:hero:SCP-073") and [Abel](https://villains.fandom.com/wiki/SCP-076-2 "SCP-076-2") as the seeds of the [Serpent](https://hero.fandom.com/wiki/Serpent_\(SCP_Foundation\) "w:c:hero:Serpent (SCP Foundation)") that gave rise to the Canaanites,[[The Imit People]]. In its beliefs, the Imit were wicked people that had emasculated the Scarlet King and needed to be cleansed from the world.

In [[SCP-001 Tufto's Proposal]], the Children revere a set of laws referred to as the Three Laws of the Scarlet King made up of the Law of Blood, Concrete and Howling: The Law of Blood represents the premodern world in which sovereigns ruled over the people with cruelty, hate, fear and blood in order to survive; The Law of Concrete represents the modern world in which people nowadays try to understand and analyse everything and live without struggle inside concrete houses; The Law of Howling represents the tension between the two worlds causing the entity of the Scarlet King who was an advocate of the Law of Blood to howl at the Law of Concrete. These laws embody the very idea that comprises the Scarlet King.

According to [Dipesh Spivak](https://villains.fandom.com/wiki/Dipesh_Spivak "Dipesh Spivak"), the true faithful members of the Children who understand the real nature of the Scarlet King as a living idea representing premodernity's "revenge" against modernity don't actually want to worship the evil god, but are instead haunted by him in their minds and forced to worship him. They seek to summon him in order to have him destroyed, so they could be free of his influence after destroying the modern lifeless way of life and return human civilization to its savage, cruel and wild roots. The Children also accused the [[SCP Foundation]] of being partially responsible for the creation of the Scarlet King due to the organisation trying to set up an order, studying and trying to understand the anomalous world, shaping the Scarlet King in his current form which cannot be destroyed as long as the Foundation exists. According to [[URA-9521]], a member of the Scarlet Covenant, the King has no personality of his own, instead being determined by the people who worship him, and even advised the Foundation that they should be more wary of the followers rather than the King himself.

In both [[SCP-6747]] and [[SCP-6659]], it is implied that the Children, unbeknownst to them, actually worshipped [[SCP-2747]], since most incarnations of the Scarlet King across the multiverse were manifestations of the anafabula used to help it destroy realities.